---
layout: post
author: Bryn
type: project
title: Crowd Farm Africa
title-sentence: Creating the website and online strategy of a Kenyan agricultural startup
---

Through the Virtual Talent xChange program hosted by Engineers Without Borders Canada, I was able to connect with Sammy Wachieni, CEO and founder of Crowd Farm Africa, an agricultural advisory company. Sammy was looking to create an online presence to increase visibilty of his organization.
<p>&nbsp;</p>
Together (SPOILERS) we created [crowdfarmafrika.com](http://crowdfarmafrika.com), an informational resource and networking hub for the East African agricultural supply chain.


# Table of contents
1. [Methodology & Communication Strategy](#)
2. [Timeline & Handover Strategy](#)
3. [Goals & Metrics](#)
4. [Testing & Iteration](#)
5. [Hosting Setup](#)
6. [Explore Company](#)
7. [Explore Users](#)
8. [User Personas](#)
9. [How will users want to use the site](#)
10. [Determining Relevant Content to Users](#)
11. [Organization based on user experiences and processes](#)
12. [Setting the Vibe](#)
13. [SEO](#15)


<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Methodology and Communication Strategy</h2>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
The first step for the creation of CFA's web strategy and website was setting up a strong framework for communication and discussion. To do so, we chose email and WhatsApp to communicate. To store, share, and organize content and files we decided to use Google Drive. 
<p>&nbsp;</p>
Having worked on Lean teams and used agile approaches, I suggested we use an agile methodology so that we could efficiently and effectively get the content users needed to the users without a loss of time or profit. We also decided to approach this project using a design thinking approach, focussing first on the human experience of the future users.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Timeline & Handover Strategy</h2>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
The timeline wasn't fixed, which worked well since covid-19 slowed down our ability to quickly take action. The loose constraints involved the goal of having most of the site available within four months, and the rest within the year.
It was clear from the start that I would be in charge of the development of the website, but not the maintenance, which meant that we needed to make sure our handover strategy would equip CFA team members with the knowledge and skills to maintain the website. To do this, we decided to heavily document the important aspects of running and updating the website using our shared google drive. It was agreed that as I transitionned out, I would provide training to the next web system administrator/content creator. 
<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Goals & Metrics</h2>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
We determined CFA's goals through a series of questions.
Goals: marketing, expand network, global site, showcase and connect members and products, languague: English,
staying at low cost, accessible to all kinds (mobile, tablet, computer), maintainable
Metrics: number of users, increase in sales, communications from website
<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Testing/Iterating</h2>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
It was both of our goals to ensure that the product worked well for users, so we needed ot involve testers at every major stag. 
The site would remain basically the same, with content changes.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Hosting Setup</h2>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
Google tech email and organization
Hostinger
Domain name
SSL
Wordpress 
<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Explore Company</h2>


<p>&nbsp;</p>
What are their values?
Who do they serve?
What do they do?
Why do they do it?
Why are they different than others?
What are their major assets or key networks?
How do they make money?
What is their story?
What is their end goal?
What are their next goals?
How will they grow?
<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Explore Users</h2>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
Users?
Customers?
Current users/customers vs future users/customers?
Basic description of personas
https://blog.hootsuite.com/buyer-persona/#:~:text=A%20buyer%20persona%20is%20a,%2C%20interests%2C%20and%20behavioral%20traits.
Persona constraints, goals, pain points
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>How will people want to use the site?</h2>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
Most common options:
Find out what the company does
Look for products
Look for service
Join a network
Asking for a service or product
<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>What to Include/Determining Relevant Content to Users</h2>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
Story, values, team, despcription of CFA
Display and description of products
Display and descrption of services
Networking and description of yourself and others
Contacting organization
<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Organization based on user experiences and processes</h2>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
Look at templates for familiarity
Seperate into 5 distinct categories: company, services, products, network
Sub categorize
bla bla contact
Each piece of content leads to and encourages an action.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>Setting the Vibe</h2>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
 (colours, font, wording, placement)
    Color
    Typography
    Layout
    Shapes

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>What We Missed</h2>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
    Mega Menu, explaining how the company makes money
<p>&nbsp;</p>

<h2>SEO and Optimizations <a name="15"></a></h2>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>